Expand smart contract security page (#7616)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/docs/smart-contracts/security/index.md

---
title: Smart contract security

> Description: An overview of guidelines for building secure Ethereum smart contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: An overview of guidelines for building secure Ethereum smart contracts
```

lang: en
sidebar: true
---

> Smart contracts are extremely flexible, capable of controlling large amounts of value and running immutable logic based on code deployed on the blockchain. This has created a vibrant ecosystem of trustless and decentralized applications that provide many advantages over legacy systems. But it also represents the perfect opportunity for attackers looking to profit by exploiting vulnerabilities in smart contracts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Smart contracts are extremely flexible, and capable of controlling large amounts of value and data, while running immutable logic based on code deployed on the blockchain. This has created a vibrant ecosystem of trustless and decentralized applications that provide many advantages over legacy systems. But it also represents the perfect opportunity for attackers looking to profit by exploiting vulnerabilities in smart contracts. 
```

Just expanding past value to include data in this.

> The peculiarities of public blockchains, like Ethereum, further complicate the issue of securing smart contracts. Deployed contract code _usually_ cannot be changed to patch security flaws, while assets stolen from smart contracts are extremely difficult to track and mostly irrecoverable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public blockchains, like Ethereum, further complicate the issue of securing smart contracts. Deployed contract code _usually_ cannot be changed to patch security flaws, while assets stolen from smart contracts are extremely difficult to track and mostly irrecoverable due to immutability. 
```

The aforementioned issues make it imperative for developers to invest effort in building secure, robust, and resilient smart smart contracts. Smart contract security is serious business, and one that every developer will do well to learn. This guide will cover security considerations for Ethereum developers and explore resources for improving smart contract security. 

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

Make sure you’re familiar with the [fundamentals of smart contract development](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/) before tackling security. 

## Guidelines for building secure Ethereum smart contracts {#smart-contract-security-guidelines}

### 1. Design proper access controls {#design-proper-access-controls}

> In smart contracts, functions marked `public` or `external` can be called by any external party, including externally owned accounts (EOAs) and contract accounts. Specifying public visibility for functions is necessary if you want others to interact with your contract (functions marked `private` cannot be called from outside the contract). However, giving every network participant access to contract functions can cause problems, especially if it means anyone can perform sensitive operations (e.g., minting new tokens). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In smart contracts, functions marked `public` or `external` can be called by any externally owned accounts (EOAs) or contract accounts. Specifying public visibility for functions is necessary if you want others to interact with your contract. Functions marked `private` however can only be called by functions within the smart contract, and not external accounts. Giving every network participant access to contract functions can cause problems, especially if it means anyone can perform sensitive operations (e.g., minting new tokens). 
```

> To prevent unauthorized use of smart contract functions, it is necessary to implement secure access controls. Access control mechanisms restrict the ability to use certain functions in a smart contract to arppoved entities, such as accounts responsible for managing the contract. The **Ownable pattern** and **role-based control** are two patterns useful for implementing access control in smart contracts: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent unauthorized use of smart contract functions, it is necessary to implement secure access controls. Access control mechanisms restrict the ability to use certain functions in a smart contract to approved entities, such as accounts responsible for managing the contract. The **Ownable pattern** and **role-based control** are two patterns useful for implementing access control in smart contracts: 
```

#### Ownable pattern {#ownable-pattern}

In the Ownable pattern, an address is set as the “owner” of the contract during the contract-creation process. Protected functions are assigned an `OnlyOwner` modifier, which ensures the contract authenticates the identity of the calling address before executing the function. Calls to protected functions from other addresses aside from the contract owner always revert, preventing unwanted access. 

#### Role-based access control {#role-based-access-control}

> Registering a single address as `Owner` in a smart contract introduces the risk of centralization and represents a single point-of-failure. If the owner’s wallet keys are compromised, attackers can wreak substantial havoc on the owned contract. This is why using a role-based access control pattern with multiple administrative accounts may be a better option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registering a single address as `Owner` in a smart contract introduces the risk of centralization and represents a single point-of-failure. If the owner’s wallet keys are compromised, attackers can attack the owned contract. This is why using a role-based access control pattern with multiple administrative accounts may be a better option.
```

In role-based access control, access to sensitive functions is distributed between a set of trusted participants. For instance, one account may be responsible for minting tokens, while another account performs upgrades or pauses the contract. Decentralizing access control this way eliminates single points of failure and reduces trust assumptions for users. 

> ##### Using multisignature wallets {#multisignature-wallets}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Using multi-signature wallets
```

> Another approach for implementing secure access control is using a [multisignature account](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/#multisig) to manage a contract. Unlike a regular EOA, multisignature accounts are owned by multiple entities and require signatures from a minimum number of accounts—say 3-of-5—to execute transactions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another approach for implementing secure access control is using a [multi-signature account](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/#multisig) to manage a contract. Unlike a regular EOA, multi-signature accounts are owned by multiple entities and require signatures from a minimum number of accounts—say 3-of-5—to execute transactions. 
```

Using a multisig for access control introduces an extra layer of security since actions on the target contract require consent from multiple parties. This is particularly useful if using the Ownable pattern is necessary, as it makes it more difficult for an attacker or rogue insider to manipulate sensitive contract functions for malicious purposes.

### 2. Use require(), assert(), and revert() statements to guard contract operations {#use-require-assert-revert}

> As mentioned, anyone can call public functions in your smart contract once it is running on the blockchain. Since you cannot know in advance how external accounts will interact with a contract, it is ideal to implement internal safeguards against problematic operations before deploying. You can enforce correct behavior in smart contracts by using the `require()`, `assert()`, and `revert()` statements to trigger exceptions and revert state changes if execution fails to satisfy certain requirements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned, anyone can call public functions in your smart contract once it is deployed on the blockchain. Since you cannot know in advance how external accounts will interact with a contract, it is ideal to implement internal safeguards against problematic operations before deploying. You can enforce correct behavior in smart contracts by using the `require()`, `assert()`, and `revert()` statements to trigger exceptions and revert state changes if execution fails to satisfy certain requirements. 
```

> **`require()`**: `require` is prepended to functions and ensures predefined conditions are met before the called function is executed. A `require` statement can be used to validate user inputs, check state variables, or authenticate the identity of the calling account before progressing with a function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`require()`**: `require` are defined at the start of functions and ensures predefined conditions are met before the whole function is executed. A `require` statement can be used to validate user inputs, check state variables, or authenticate the identity of the calling account before progressing through the function. 
```

> **`assert()`**: `assert()` is used to detect internal errors and check for violation of “invariants” in your code—an invariant is a logical assertion about a contract’s state that should hold true for all function executions. An example invariant is the maximium total supply or balance of a token contract. Using `assert()` ensures that your contract never reaches a vulnerable state, and if it does, all changes to state variables are rolled back. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`assert()`**: `assert()` is used to detect internal errors and check for violations of “invariants” in your code. An invariant is a logical assertion about a contract’s state that should hold true for all function executions. An example invariant is the maximium total supply or balance of a token contract. Using `assert()` ensures that your contract never reaches a vulnerable state, and if it does, all changes to state variables are rolled back. 
```

> **`revert()`**: `revert()` can be used in an if-else clause that triggers an exception if the required condition is not satisfied. The sample contract below uses `revert()` to guard the execution of functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`revert()`**: `revert()` can be used in an if-else statement that triggers an exception if the required condition is not satisfied. The sample contract below uses `revert()` to guard the execution of functions:
```

```
pragma solidity ^0.8.4;

contract VendingMachine {
    address owner;
    error Unauthorized();
    function buy(uint amount) public payable {
        if (amount > msg.value / 2 ether)
            revert("Not enough Ether provided.");
        // Perform the purchase.
    }
    function withdraw() public {
        if (msg.sender != owner)
            revert Unauthorized();

        payable(msg.sender).transfer(address(this).balance);
    }
}
``` 
### 3. Test smart contracts and verify code correctness {#test-smart-contracts-and-verify-code-correctness}

> The immutability of code running in the [Ethereum Virtual Machine](/developers/docs/evm/) means smart contracts demand a higher level of quality assessment during the development phase. Testing your contract religiously and observing it for any unexpected results will improve security a great deal and protect your users in the long run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The immutability of code running in the [Ethereum Virtual Machine](/developers/docs/evm/) means smart contracts demand a higher level of quality assessment during the development phase. Testing your contract extensively and observing it for any unexpected results will improve security a great deal and protect your users in the long run. 
```

> The usual method is to write small tests using a sample of the data which the contract is expected to receive from users. [Unit testing](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/testing/#unit-testing) (as this approach is described) is good for testing the functionality of certain features and ensuring a smart contract works as expected. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usual method is to write small unit tests using mock data that the contract is expected to receive from users. [Unit testing](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/testing/#unit-testing) is good for testing the functionality of certain functions and ensuring a smart contract works as expected. 
```

> Nevertheless, unit testing is hardly effective for improving smart contract security when used in isolation. A unit test might prove a function executes properly for sample data, but it cannot prove the same for other other inputs not under consideration. This makes it difficult to detect the edge-cases and hidden vulnerabilities that could break the safety of your smart contract. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, unit testing is hardly effective for improving smart contract security when used in isolation. A unit test might prove a function executes properly for mock data, but unit tests are only as effective as the tests that are written. This makes it difficult to missed detect edge cases and vulnerabilities that could break the safety of your smart contract. 
```

A better approach is to combine unit testing with property-based testing performed using [static and dynamic analysis](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/testing/#static-dynamic-analysis). Static analysis relies on low-level representations, such as [control flow graphs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control-flow_graph) and [abstract syntax trees](https://deepsource.io/glossary/ast/) to analyze reachable program states and execution paths. Meanwhile, dynamic analysis techniques, such as fuzzing, execute contract code with random input values to detect operations that violate security properties. 

[Formal verification](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/formal-verification) is another technique for verifying security properties in smart contracts. Unlike regular testing, formal verification can conclusively prove the absence of errors in a smart contract. This is achieved by creating a formal specification that captures desired security properties and proving that a formal model of the contracts adheres to this specification. 

### 4. Ask for an independent review of your code {#get-independent-code-reviews}

> After testing your contract, it is good to ask others to check the source code for any security issues. Testing cannot possibily cannot uncover every flaw in a smart contract, but getting an independent review increases the possibility of spotting hidden vulnerabilities. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After testing your contract, it is good to ask others to check the source code for any security issues. Testing will not uncover every flaw in a smart contract, but getting an independent review increases the possibility of spotting vulnerabilities. 
```

#### Audits {#audits}

> Commissioning a smart contract audit is one way of conducting an independent code review. As trained cybersecurity professionals, auditors play an important role in ensuring that smart contracts are secure and free from quality defects and design errors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commissioning a smart contract audit is one way of conducting an independent code review. Auditors play an important role in ensuring that smart contracts are secure and free from quality defects and design errors. 
```

> That said, you should avoid treating audits as a silver bullet—don’t write bad code and expect auditors to make it flawless. Smart contract audits won't catch every bug and are mostly designed to provide an additional round of reviews, which can help detect issues missed by developers during initial development and testing. You should also follow [best practices for working with auditors](https://twitter.com/tinchoabbate/status/1400170232904400897), such as documenting code properly and adding inline comments, to maximize the benefit of a smart contract audit. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That said, you should avoid treating audits as a silver bullet. Smart contract audits won't catch every bug and are mostly designed to provide an additional round of reviews, which can help detect issues missed by developers during initial development and testing. You should also follow [best practices for working with auditors](https://twitter.com/tinchoabbate/status/1400170232904400897), such as documenting code properly and adding inline comments, to maximize the benefit of a smart contract audit. 
```

A useful strategy is to set the payout of a bug bounty program in proportion to the amount of funds at stake. Described as the “[scaling bug bounty](https://medium.com/immunefi/a-defi-security-standard-the-scaling-bug-bounty-9b83dfdc1ba7)”, this approach provides financial incentives for individuals to responsibly disclose vulnerabilities instead of exploiting them. 

### 5. Follow best practices during smart contract development {#follow-smart-contract-development-best-practices}

The existence of audits and bug bounties doesn’t excuse your responsibility to write high-quality code. Good smart contract security starts with following proper design and development processes:

> - Store all code stored in a version control system, such as git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Store all code in a version control system, such as git
```

- Make all code modifications via pull requests

> - Ensure pull requests have at least one independent reviewer—if you are working solo on a project, consider finding other developers and trade code reviews!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure pull requests have at least one independent reviewer—if you are working solo on a project, consider finding other developers and trade code reviews
```

Designing secure access controls, implementing function modifiers, and other suggestions can improve smart contract security, but they cannot rule out the possibility of malicious exploits. Building secure smart contracts requires “preparing for failure” and having a fallback plan for responding effectively to attacks. A proper disaster recovery plan will incorporate some or all of the following components: 

#### Contract upgrades {#contract-upgrades}

While Ethereum smart contracts are immutable by default, it is possible to achieve some degree of mutability by using upgrade patterns. Upgrading contracts is necessary in cases where a critical flaw renders your old contract unusable and deploying new logic is the most feasible option. 

Contract upgrade mechanisms work differently, but the “proxy pattern” is one of the more popular approaches for upgrading smart contracts. Proxy patterns split an application’s state and logic between *two* contracts. The first contract (called a ‘proxy contract’) stores state variables (e.g., user balances), while the second contract (called a ‘logic contract’) holds the code for executing contract functions. 

> Accounts interact with the proxy contract, which dispatches all function calls to the logic contract using the [`delegatecall()`](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.16/introduction-to-smart-contracts.html?highlight=delegatecall#delegatecall-callcode-and-libraries) low-level call. Unlike a regular message call, `delegatecall()` ensures the code running at the logic contract’s address is executed in the context of the calling contract. This means the the logic contract always write to the proxy’s storage (instead of its own storage) and the original values of `msg.sender` and `msg.value` are preserved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accounts interact with the proxy contract, which dispatches all function calls to the logic contract using the [`delegatecall()`](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.16/introduction-to-smart-contracts.html?highlight=delegatecall#delegatecall-callcode-and-libraries) low-level call. Unlike a regular message call, `delegatecall()` ensures the code running at the logic contract’s address is executed in the context of the calling contract. This means the logic contract will always write to the proxy’s storage (instead of its own storage) and the original values of `msg.sender` and `msg.value` are preserved.
```

> Users (and other contracts) interact with the proxy contract, which dispatches all function calls to the logic contract using the [`delegatecall()`](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.16/introduction-to-smart-contracts.html?highlight=delegatecall#delegatecall-callcode-and-libraries) low-level call. Unlike a regular message call, `delegatecall()` ensures the code running at the logic contract’s address is executed in the context of the calling contract. This means the the logic contract always write to the proxy’s storage (instead of its own storage) and the original values of `msg.sender` and `msg.value` are preserved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accounts interact with the proxy contract, which dispatches all function calls to the logic contract using the [`delegatecall()`](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.16/introduction-to-smart-contracts.html?highlight=delegatecall#delegatecall-callcode-and-libraries) low-level call. Unlike a regular message call, `delegatecall()` ensures the code running at the logic contract’s address is executed in the context of the calling contract. This means the the logic contract always write to the proxy’s storage (instead of its own storage) and the original values of `msg.sender` and `msg.value` are preserved.
```

[More on upgrading contracts](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/upgrading/). 

#### Emergency stops {#emergency-stops}

As mentioned, extensive auditing and testing cannot possibly discover all bugs in a smart contract. If a vulnerability appears in your code after deployment, patching it is impossible since you cannot change the code running at the contract address. Also, upgrade mechanisms (e.g., proxy patterns) may take time to implement (they often require approval from different parties), which only gives attackers more time to cause more damage.

The nuclear option is to implement an “emergency stop” function that blocks calls to vulnerable functions in a contract. Emergency stops typically comprise the following components:

1. A global Boolean variable indicating if the smart contract is in a stopped state or not. This variable is set to `false` when setting up the contract, but will revert to `true` once the contract is stopped. 

> 2. Functions that reference the Boolean variable in their execution. Such functions are either accessible when the smart contract is not stopped, they are accessible when the emergency stop feature is triggered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Functions that reference the Boolean variable in their execution. Such functions are accessible when the smart contract is not stopped, and become unaccessible when the emergency stop feature is triggered. 
```

```solidity
// This code has not been professionally audited and makes no promises about safety or correctness. Use at your own risk.

contract EmergencyStop {

    bool isStopped = false;

    modifier stoppedInEmergency {
        require(!isStopped);
        _;
    }

    modifier onlyWhenStopped {
        require(isStopped);
        _;
    }

    modifier onlyAuthorized {
        // Check for authorization of msg.sender here
        _;
    }

    function stopContract() public onlyAuthorized {
        isStopped = true;
    }

    function resumeContract() public onlyAuthorized {
        isStopped = false;
    }

    function deposit() public payable stoppedInEmergency {
        // Deposit logic happening here
    }

    function emergencyWithdraw() public onlyWhenStopped {
        // Emergency withdraw happening here
    }
}
```

This example shows the basic features of emergency stops:

- `isStopped` is a Boolean that evaluates to `false` at the beginning and `true` when the contract enters emergency mode. 

> - The function modifiers `onlyWhenStopped` and `stoppedInEmergency` check the `isStopped` variable. `stoppedInEmergency` is used to control functions that should be inaccessible when the contract is vulnerable (e.g., `deposit()`)—calls to these functions will simply revert. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The function modifiers `onlyWhenStopped` and `stoppedInEmergency` check the `isStopped` variable. `stoppedInEmergency` is used to control functions that should be inaccessible when the contract is vulnerable (e.g., `deposit()`). Calls to these functions will simply revert. 
```

We advise reading more on [designing secure governance systems](https://blog.openzeppelin.com/smart-contract-security-guidelines-4-strategies-for-safer-governance-systems/) and [different voting mechanisms in DAOs](https://hackernoon.com/governance-is-the-holy-grail-for-daos). 

### 8. Reduce complexity in code to a minimum {#reduce-code-complexity} 

Traditional software developers are familiar with the KISS (“keep it simple, stupid”) principle, which advises against introducing unnecessary complexity into software design. This follows the long-held thinking that “complex systems fail in complex ways” and are more susceptible to costly errors. 

> Keeping things simple is even more important when writing smart contracts, given that smart contracts are high-value applications. A tip for achieving simplicity when writing smart contracts is to reuse existing libraries, such as [OpenZeppelin Contracts](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/), where possible. Because these libraries have been extensively audited and tested by developers, using them reduces the chances of introducing bugs by writing new functionality from scratch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keeping things simple is of particular importance when writing smart contracts, given that smart contracts are potentially controlling large amounts of value. A tip for achieving simplicity when writing smart contracts is to reuse existing libraries, such as [OpenZeppelin Contracts](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/), where possible. Because these libraries have been extensively audited and tested by developers, using them reduces the chances of introducing bugs by writing new functionality from scratch. 
```

Another common advice is to write small functions and keep contracts modular by splitting business logic across multiple contracts. Not only does writing simpler code reduce the attack surface in a smart contract, it also makes it easier to reason about the correctness of the overall system and detect possible design errors early. 

### 9. Defend against common smart contract vulnerabilities {#mitigate-common-smart-contract-vulnerabilities}

#### Reentrancy {#reentrancy}

The EVM doesn’t permit concurrency, meaning two contracts involved in a message call cannot run simultaneously. An external call pauses the calling contract's execution and memory until the call returns, at which point execution proceeds normally. This process can be formally described as transferring [control flow](https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/c/contflow.htm) to another contract. 

> Although mostly harmless, transferring control flow to untrusted contracts can cause problems, such as reentrancy. A reentrancy attack occurs when a malicious contract calls back into a vulnerable contract before the original function invocation is complete. This type of attack is best explained with an example as we do below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although mostly harmless, transferring control flow to untrusted contracts can cause problems, such as reentrancy. A reentrancy attack occurs when a malicious contract calls back into a vulnerable contract before the original function invocation is complete. This type of attack is best explained with an example. 
```

- `Victim` checks `Attacker`’s balance (which is still 1 ETH because it hasn’t applied the effects of the first call) 
- `Victim` sends 1 ETH to `Attacker` (which triggers the default function and allows `Attacker` to reenter the `withdraw` function)
- The process repeats until `Attacker` runs out of gas, at which point `msg.sender.call.value` returns without triggering additional withdrawals
- `Victim` finally applies the results of the first transaction (and subsequent ones) to its state, so `Attacker`’s balance is set to 0
```

The summary is that because the caller’s balance isn't set to 0 until the function execution completes, subsequent invocations will succeed and allow the caller to withdraw their balance multiple times. This kind of attack can be used to drain a smart contracy of its funds, like what happened in the [2016 DAO hack](https://www.coindesk.com/learn/2016/06/25/understanding-the-dao-attack/). Reentrancy attacks are still a critical issue for smart contracts today as [public listings of reentrancy exploits](https://github.com/pcaversaccio/reentrancy-attacks) show. 

> ##### How to prevent reentrancy attacks {#preventing-reentrancy-attacks}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### How to prevent reentrancy attacks
```

> An approach to dealing with reentrancy is following the [checks-effects-interactions](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/develop/security-considerations.html#use-the-checks-effects-interactions-pattern) pattern. This pattern orders the execution of functions in a way that code that performs necessary checks before progressing with execution comes first, followed by code that manipulates contract state, with code that interacts with other contracts or EOAs arriving last. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An approach to dealing with reentrancy is following the [checks-effects-interactions pattern](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/develop/security-considerations.html#use-the-checks-effects-interactions-pattern). This pattern orders the execution of functions in a way that code that performs necessary checks before progressing with execution comes first, followed by code that manipulates contract state, with code that interacts with other contracts or EOAs arriving last. 
```

> An approach to dealing with reentrancy is following the [checks-effects-interactions](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/develop/security-considerations.html#use-the-checks-effects-interactions-pattern) pattern. This pattern orders the execution of functions in a way that code that performs necessary checks before progressing with execution comes first, followed by code that manipulates contract state, with code that interacts with other contracts or EOAs arriving last. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An approach to dealing with reentrancy is following the [checks-effects-interactions pattern](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/develop/security-considerations.html#use-the-checks-effects-interactions-pattern). This pattern orders the execution of functions in a way that code that performs necessary checks before progressing with execution comes first, followed by code that manipulates contract state, with code that interacts with other contracts or EOAs arriving last. 
```

}
```

This contract performs a *check* on the user’s balance, applies the *effects* of the `withdraw()` function (by resetting the user’s balance to 0), and proceeds to perform the *interaction* (sending ETH to the user’s address). This ensures the contract updates its storage before the external call, eliminating the re-entrancy condition that enabled the first attack. The `Attacker` contract could still call back into `NoLongerAVictim`, but since `balances[msg.sender]` has been set to 0, additional withdrawals will throw an error. 

> Another option is to use a mutual exclusion lock (commonly described as a "mutex") that locks a portion of a contract’s state until a function invocation completes. This is implemented using a Boolean variable that is set to `true` before the function executes and reverts to `false` after the invocation is done. As seen in the example below, using a mutex protects a function against recursive calls while the original invocation is still processing—effectively stopping reentrancy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option is to use a mutual exclusion lock (commonly described as a "mutex") that locks a portion of a contract’s state until a function invocation completes. This is implemented using a Boolean variable that is set to `true` before the function executes and reverts to `false` after the invocation is done. As seen in the example below, using a mutex protects a function against recursive calls while the original invocation is still processing, effectively stopping reentrancy. 
```

        lockTime[msg.sender] = block.timestamp + 1 weeks;
    }

    function increaseLockTime(uint _secondsToIncrease) public {
        lockTime[msg.sender] += _secondsToIncrease;
    }

    function withdraw() public {
        require(balances[msg.sender] > 0, "Insufficient funds");
        require(block.timestamp > lockTime[msg.sender], "Lock time not expired");

        uint amount = balances[msg.sender];
        balances[msg.sender] = 0;

        (bool sent, ) = msg.sender.call{value: amount}("");
        require(sent, "Failed to send Ether");
    }
}

contract Attack {
    TimeLock timeLock;

    constructor(TimeLock _timeLock) {
        timeLock = TimeLock(_timeLock);
    }

    fallback() external payable {}

    function attack() public payable {
        timeLock.deposit{value: msg.value}();
        /*
        if t = current lock time then we need to find x such that
        x + t = 2**256 = 0
        so x = -t
        2**256 = type(uint).max + 1
        so x = type(uint).max + 1 - t
        */
        timeLock.increaseLockTime(
            type(uint).max + 1 - timeLock.lockTime(address(this))
        );
        timeLock.withdraw();
    }
}
```

> ##### How to prevent integer underflows and overflows {#preventing-integer-underflows-and-overflows}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### How to prevent integer underflows and overflows
```

> As from version 0.8.0, the Solidity compiler rejects code that results in integer underflows and overflows. However, contracts compiled with a lower compiler version should either perform checks on functions involving arithmetic operations or use a library (e.g., [SafeMath](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/2.x/api/math)) that checks for underflow/overflow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In version 0.8.0, the Solidity compiler rejects code that results in integer underflows and overflows. However, contracts compiled with a lower compiler version should either perform checks on functions involving arithmetic operations or use a library (e.g., [SafeMath](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/2.x/api/math)) that checks for underflow/overflow. 
```

#### Oracle manipulation {#oracle-manipulation}

> [Oracles](/developers/docs/oracles/) source real-world information and send it on-chain for smart contracts to use. With oracles, you can design smart contracts that interoperate with real-world systems, such as capital markets, greatly expanding their application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Oracles](/developers/docs/oracles/) source real-world information and send it on-chain for smart contracts to use. With oracles, you can design smart contracts that interoperate with real-world systems, such as capital markets, greatly expanding their application.
```
```suggestion
[Oracles](/developers/docs/oracles/) source real-world information and send it on-chain for smart contracts to use. With oracles, you can design smart contracts that interoperate with real-world systems, such as capital markets, greatly expanding their application.
```
```suggestion
[Oracles](/developers/docs/oracles/) source off-chain information and send it on-chain for smart contracts to use. With oracles, you can design smart contracts that interoperate with off-chain systems, such as capital markets, greatly expanding their application.
```

> But if the oracle is corrupted and sends incorrect information on-chain, smart contracts will execute based on erroneous inputs—which can cause problems. This is the basis of the “oracle problem”, which concerns the task of making sure information from a blockchain oracle is accurate, up-to-date, and timely. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But if the oracle is corrupted and sends incorrect information on-chain, smart contracts will execute based on erroneous inputs, which can cause problems. This is the basis of the “oracle problem”, which concerns the task of making sure information from a blockchain oracle is accurate, up-to-date, and timely. 
```

> A related security concern is using an on-chain oracle, such as a decentralized exchange, to get the spot price for an asset. Lending platforms in the [decentralized finance](/defi/) (DeFi) industry often do this to determine the value of a user’s collateral to determine how much they can borrow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A related security concern is using an on-chain oracle, such as a decentralized exchange, to get the spot price for an asset. Lending platforms in the [decentralized finance (DeFi)](/defi/) industry often do this to determine the value of a user’s collateral to determine how much they can borrow. 
```

> DEX prices are often or nearly accurate, largely due to arbitrageurs restoring parity in markets. However, they are open to manipulation—particularly if the on-chain oracle calculates asset prices based on historical trading patterns (as is usually the case). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DEX prices are often accurate, largely due to arbitrageurs restoring parity in markets. However, they are open to manipulation, particularly if the on-chain oracle calculates asset prices based on historical trading patterns (as is usually the case). 
```

For instance, an attacker could artificially pump the spot price of an asset by taking out a flash loan right before interacting with your lending contract. Querying the DEX for the asset’s price would return a higher-than-normal value (due to the attacker’s large “buy order” skewing demand for the asset), allowing them to borrow more than they should. Such "flash loan attacks" have been used to exploit reliance on price oracles among DeFi applications, costing protocols millions in lost funds. 

> ##### How to prevent oracle manipulation {#preventing-oracle-manipulation}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### How to prevent oracle manipulation
```

The minimum requirement to avoid oracle manipulation is to use a decentralized oracle network that queries information from multiple sources to avoid single points of failure. In most cases, decentralized oracles have built-in cryptoeconomic incentives to encourage oracle nodes to report correct information, making them more secure than centralized oracles. 

> If you plan on querying on an on-chain oracle for asset prices, consider using one that implements a time-weighted average price (TWAP) mechanism. A [TWAP oracle](https://docs.uniswap.org/protocol/V2/concepts/core-concepts/oracles) queries the price of an asset at two different points in time (which you can modify) and calculates the spot price based on the average obtained. Choosing longer time periods protects your protocol against price manipulation since large orders executed recently cannot impact asset prices. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan on querying an on-chain oracle for asset prices, consider using one that implements a time-weighted average price (TWAP) mechanism. A [TWAP oracle](https://docs.uniswap.org/protocol/V2/concepts/core-concepts/oracles) queries the price of an asset at two different points in time (which you can modify) and calculates the spot price based on the average obtained. Choosing longer time periods protects your protocol against price manipulation since large orders executed recently cannot impact asset prices. 
```
